Okay, in this section of the course we
are going to talk about Spring
configuration options and there is a
plethora of them. Plethora meaning many
many to choose from. Now the first one that  we want to talk
about is XML based configuration. This
was introduced in Spring Framework
version 2 and you will see that out in
the field quite a bit. It's very common
in legacy Spring applications and it's
still supported in Spring Framework
version 5. The XML configuration is a
very mature option. I honestly don't see
it going anywhere just because of the
footprint that it has in the industry.
I've used XML configuration for a long
time. It is very mature and modern IDE's
do make it a lot easier to work with
because they are sensitive to the XML
schema. So you will bring in an XML
schema, your IDE will pick it up and
you're able to do the configuration
properly so that XML schema is very
important to the XML based configuration. Then we have Annotation Based
Configuration. Now this was introduced in
Spring Framework version 3 and we've
been seeing that quite a bit in the course
so far. So Spring Beans are picked up via
'Component Scans' and this refers to the
class level annotations and we've seen
most of these in action already and
what's not readily apparent is we've
been using Spring Boot and it will do a
Component Scan. So wherever that Spring
Boot class is, that's annotated as a
SpringBootApplication. It looks in that
package and down so that this is
something that will commonly trip up
people because they'll move a component
outside of that package hierarchy and
also in their stuff breaks and they're
not seeing it. So something to be aware
of when you're working with Spring Boot
and Annotation Based Configurations
because you do have to tell Spring what
packages to scan for components .Now next
up is the Java Based Configuration. This
also was introduced in Spring
Framework 3.0 and this uses Java classes
to define Spring Beans.
So you're able to programmatically
declare the Spring Beans and your
configuration classes are defined with
an @Configuration annotation and
within the classes, you define methods
that are regular Java public methods and
on those, you'd use an @Bean annotation. So this allows the Spring framework to
scan that as sees a configuration class
and then methods that are declared with
the Bean annotation are used to bring
Spring components into the context. Then
next up in Spring framework 4.0, we have
a Groovy Bean Definition DSL and DSL
being domain-specific language. So this
is a style of Groovy language that
allows you to declare Spring Beans and
this was a borrowed from the Grails team.
So this is brought into Spring Framework 4.0
and it gives you a pretty versatile
option. I honestly don't see it used too
much by the Spring community itself. It
is the go-to method of declaring Spring
Beans in the Grails community and Grails
is effectively a Groovy wrapper around
the Spring framework. So the traditional
Spring guys just don't use it very much
to my knowledge but the Grails community
sure does. Now you might be wondering
which to use. You actually can use all
the above. No matter how you declare the
Spring Bean, they work seamlessly
together to bring beans into the Spring
Context and right now the industry trend
is definitely to favour Java Based
Configuration. All modern Spring
development is being done with the Java
Based Configuration. I don't see people
using the XML configuration and even
though the Java Based Configuration was
introduced in Spring Framework 3.0, it
wasn't quite fully featured. It didn't
have a lot of the options that were
mature in the XML configuration. However
that trend, as more and more releases
came out in the Spring 3 series and most
definitely the Spring 4 series, that gap
is now pretty much no longer
existent and all those sub Spring
projects are now moving to Java Based
Configuration. There were some holdouts services
still doing XML but for the
most part, all the Spring projects are
now on Java Based Configuration. So I
would think at some point they might
phase out the XML but I don't foresee
that happening because it is so popular
with legacy application. So the Spring
community will probably not be too happy about
that if the XML went away just because
of the amount of code that is out there
in the field that is using XML. But for
us developing new applications, the trend
is definitely towards Java Based
Configuration.